Literature Review
================

## Forecasting

### Modeling

There are two forms of forecasting, scientific and non-scientific.
Forecasting is neither prediction or explanation because it looks to the
future, and aims to predict an outcome, rather than looking at the past
to predict or theorizing the outcome(1. 145).

The goal of the choice of model design is to minimize error. Some binary
divions of the mode include *conditional vs. unconditional* and
*after-the-fact vs. before-the-fact*. The first step in forecasting is
designing the model. Generally speaking, a model based on theory
produces a result that is more favorable than models which are
atheoretical.(1. 146) Designing a model for forecasting is very similar
to other social sciences models, but the focus of the design is on the
response variable, not the explanatory variables. Forecasting begins
after creating the model. You must establish the definition of accuracy
in order to determine the accuracy of the model(1. 147).The questionaire
can be approached in different ways: vote-intention surveying and
vote-expectation surveys(1. 147)

### Politcal Implications

The 2012 presidential campaign brought about a sudden increase in
interest of political forecasting. Serious effort to predict
presidential campaigns have been around for more than 40 years, but it
isn’t until more recently that these methods have come under public
scrutiny. The seminal works that established political forecasting came
out in the late 1970s and early 1980s. The methods can be categorized
into the following four types: Strucuralists, Aggregators, Synthesizers,
and Judges. The distinguishing features of these methods are the use of
data, theory, and their inference(2. 284).

### Citation

*As of right now I’m uncertain how to connect in text citation to bibtex
so i’m just keeping track here. will do more proper in text citation
later.*

1.  “Election Forecasting: Principles and Practice”. Lewis-Beck, Michael
    S. Blackwell Publishing Ltd. 2005 Vol 7, p 145-164.

2.  “US Presidential Election Forecating”. Lew-Beck, Michael S.
    Stegmaier, Mary. American Polictical Science Association. April
    2014.

<!-- end list -->

  - provides good resources to explore
